This weird-looking computer replaced my
most annoying subscriptions. [music] I
downgraded my Netflix, Dropbox, Google
Photos, and even ChatGPT, which will
save me tens of thousands of dollars in
subscription [music] fees into the
future. There's more storage here than I
can use in my entire lifetime, and I can
access it from anywhere in the world.
The way I've done this is with something
called self-hosting. And in this video,
I'm going to explain what self-hosting
is and share with you eight [music]
really underrated open-source apps that
can help you replace your subscriptions.
Before you think this video is too nerdy
for you because of the word
self-hosting, I also used to be like
that. But over the past year, I started
to get more curious into it and I spent
hundreds of hours learning about it and
tinkering with it. Contrary to popular
belief, you actually don't need to spend
any money to set this up. You don't even
have to buy a new computer, and there
are no subscription fees, and there are
not even one-time payments. So, to
explain what it is simply, when you use
apps like Dropbox or Google Photos,
you're essentially just connecting your
computer or device [music]
to another computer in that company's
office, kind of like a storage unit. So,
obviously, you have to keep paying
monthly because they have to do a bunch
of stuff with that. Like, they [music]
have to pay the electricity, they have
to clean it, they have to make sure
nothing's broken. The upside for you is
that you don't have to think about it,
right? Like, they do all the
maintenance, they handle the storage
unit, and you put all your files there.
[music] But the downside is they can
raise their prices whenever they want,
they often get hacked, and you have very
little control over your own data. And
over time, you might have redundant
subscriptions. [music] Like, you might
have a Google Photos subscription and an
Apple Photos subscription if you switch
devices. Or maybe you have a Netflix
account and a Disney Plus account just
[music] to be able to watch the content
that you want to watch. So, self-hosting
is basically you owning your own storage
unit versus [music] renting one. So,
there are photos apps or there are media
apps where you can watch movies and TV
shows that you have on your computer,
and the only thing that you have to do
is to keep your computer running. And
we're kind of in a unique time now where
it used to be really expensive to do
something like this to self-host your
own services, but now it's cheap enough
to self-host your own services. And
also, [music]
there are a lot of really good open
source apps now. You won't have to worry
about apps pivoting [music] or being
sold to different companies and your
data being lost, which happens a lot,
especially in the companies that we see
today. Now, there's literally millions
of people doing this, [music] so it's
one of the best times to try something
like this out, especially with tools
like Cloud Code. It really lowers
[music] the technical barrier to set
something like this up, and it's really
something that you can do in a single
day. Arguably, this is also more secure
than hosting your data on cloud services
because if you set it up correctly, only
your own devices can access your server.
And so, you have a bigger risk of
someone breaking into your house and
stealing your hard drives than you have
of somebody hacking into your computer.
But yeah, that's basically all you need
to know about self-hosting, and at the
end, I'm going to share with you my
exact setup and what that looks like.
For context, all of these are accessible
by all of my devices, even on iOS, and
there is not a single thing here that
requires a subscription or any money at
all. Okay, the first is [music] to
replace Google Photos. So, this is an
app called Immich, and it's basically a
Google Photos clone that works exactly
as you would expect. So, you just drag
photos into here, it auto-organizes it,
and you can
browse it in the same way that you would
browse Google Photos. They also have an
iOS app, and it works [music] really
smoothly. And it's also really helpful
for my YouTube channel. So, for example,
I have a separate account here where I
have it connected to my media folder,
and so I can see my different
thumbnails, different B-rolls that I
filmed, and also edited videos, and so
it makes it easy for me to find stuff
because it's just in [music] this format
versus in a bunch of different folders.
This app is surprisingly robust. There's
nearly 100,000 stars on GitHub, and
there are a ton of features. Like, for
example, there are machine learning
features where you can search for things
just by typing in a natural language.
>> [music]
>> Uh it can auto-sort by different faces
that are in your library. You can make
albums. you can even share with
different people with a link. So, this
is sort of the ultimate photos app. All
right, so the next one helped me replace
paying for [music] a cloud storage. So,
once you set up a self-hosted computer,
you can just connect to it by mounting
it as a drive on your Mac. So, on a Mac,
I just click go, connect to server, and
I type my IP address, and it shows up as
a drive that I can access. It doesn't
take up any storage on my computer, and
I'm literally [music] accessing the
computer. So, there's not even syncing
required. On iOS, I also do something
similar in [music] the default files
app, I just typed in my IP address and
logged in, and I can easily view all my
files straight from my phone. And the
one app that [music] I do use for this
is called Tailscale. This just makes it
so that even if I'm outside, I'm using
my phone outside, I'm connected to some
random internet connection, I can still
connect to my home server at home, and I
can view my photos, and [music] I can
access my files. Yeah, after setting
this up and being able to access all my
files from anywhere,
>> [music]
>> I realized it's kind of scary if you
store a lot of photos or data in the
cloud at some random companies' servers.
Like,
>> [music]
>> at any time they can increase the price,
they might get hacked, their stuff might
be leaked, and this stuff has happened a
bunch of times throughout history, but
[music] we basically had no choice and
had to keep paying. A lot of times
they'll even bait you in with like a
free offer or a very low tier offer, and
then they will just drastically increase
the price over time. Another
subscription that's similar to that that
I'm glad I canceled is Netflix. So,
Netflix
used to be pretty cool as a service.
Like, you can watch all your movies one
spot,
uh no matter where you are, but then
over time, as they became bigger as a
company, you started needing VPNs just
to access the same content because of
copyright law, and you started seeing
ads when you actually are paying for it,
and you started to need multiple
different subscriptions just to watch uh
different things that you wanted to
watch. So, there is a better solution.
If you actually own your content, you
can watch it forever with no
subscription fees. So, this is an
open-source app called Jellyfin and it
lets you create your own personal
Netflix if you have a library of
content. So, you can put
any content that you have in a folder
and then it will automatically
categorize it, it will find the
metadata, and you can watch it in a
format that looks like this. Uh this is
a demo, this is not my library, by the
way. So, obviously you should only do
this with content that you own and
DRM-free content
that you can find the public domain. And
so, this is going to vary country to
country, so you should look into it if
you're considering setting something
like this up. But, the next app I'm
going to show helped me cancel ChatGPT
and replace it with a private LLM that
runs locally on my computer. So,
>> [music]
>> nothing gets sent to any servers. So,
this app is called Open Web UI and it's
basically an identical chat interface to
what you're probably [music] used to
with LLMs. The main difference is that
you can connect it to local models that
you run on your computer. Open-source
LLMs are getting extremely good and one
of my favorite ones right now is called
Qwen [music]
3.5 35 billion. This open-source app is
also really powerful because you can
build your own custom bots. Like, for
example, I built a
clone of myself just for fun that is
connected to my calendar, my to-do's,
and I can ask about it. And I also built
one that is for Japanese. I can ask it
questions and it knows the best way to
answer me and has context about where I
am
in regards to [music] my learning
history. If you're interested in running
your own local models, you can check out
the app called LM Studio and you can see
what models you can run on your
computer. You can also connect it to an
API, so if you wanted to, you can run
>> [music]
>> frontier models in this app like Claude
models and ChatGPT models. So, I also
have my API keys connected when I do
want to use those models. And of course,
I can also connect to this on my phone
and use it even when I'm not home. The
next app [music] saves me from having to
pay for a password manager. So, this is
called Bitwarden. [music] So, previously
I was using LastPass, which I was paying
like $1 to $3 a month for. But, in
reality, they actually got hacked
multiple times, and then they ended up
leaking everyone's databases [music]
out onto the public internet. And so, I
was like, "What what the hell am I even
doing?" So, Bitwarden is a password
manager that they give you the option to
self-host your own
database. And if you self-host your own
database, it's actually more secure
because only your own devices can have
access to it, and you can revoke
permissions [music] at any time. And
they're also encrypted on your own hard
drive. So, there's very little chance of
anything getting hacked or leaked.
[music] The next app saved me from
hidden trackers and ads across all of my
devices.
>> [music]
>> So, it's this app called Pi-hole.
Normally, if you wanted to block random
trackers and ads, you have to install ad
blockers on each of your devices and
maybe each of your different browsers.
So, Pi-hole is a network-wide [music]
ad blocking for all of your connected
devices. And you only have to do it
once, and all of your devices will have
>> [music]
>> the same security and blocking. And you
can see, it's blocked hundreds of
thousands
of queries of just random apps and
services trying to track me. [music]
There are a bunch of pre-made lists for
trackers and ads that you can just add
and block. And you can also block
unproductive sites that you never want
to go to, and they will be activated on
all of your devices. So, it's useful for
tabloid news, news sites, and other
unproductive websites that you can
probably think of. The next app [music]
is sort of a fun app that I wanted to
share, but
this is a location tracking app called
Dawa Rich. Basically, you know how there
are apps that track your location all
the time, and they they send it to their
servers. This app essentially does this,
but it's sending it to your own server.
And the benefit of installing something
like this is that it creates a heat map
of your local city that you can go back
and look at. This is sort of similar to
Google Timelines, which was a feature
built into Google Maps, [music] where it
tracks you and shows you a detailed uh
history of everywhere that you've been
to, but they ended up just deleting
everyone's data, and so this allows you
to do something similar without sharing
with anybody. The last tab I want to
share is probably one of my favorite,
and it's called Glance. So, Glance is a
dashboard that has a bunch of different
modules, and you can arrange them in
different pages or in different layouts,
however you like. So, I have my YouTube
subscriptions, I have some blogs that
I'm subscribed to, uh some subreddits,
stock market, the weather,
where I'm at, the weather in different
time zones. So, this second tab is
services, and here I can just get a
quick
view of all the different apps that have
installed and whether or not they're
running correctly. And so, you can
really make this anything that you like,
and especially with Cloud Code now, it's
very easy to make changes. But yeah, now
let me share with you what my setup
actually looks like. And for context, my
setup is not the ultimate setup or
anything like that. It just makes sense
[music] for the amount of storage space
that I need and the apps I want to run
on it. So, I have a Synology NAS [music]
DSM . It has four bays that you can fit
24 terabytes into each slot, so up to
100 terabytes. Right now, I have two
slots filled, so I have 50 terabytes.
This computer is called a NAS, [music]
and they call it a NAS because it's
specifically made for self-hosting. So,
it stands for network attached storage.
But it's essentially just a computer.
For me, this made the most sense because
I needed to be expandable up to 100
terabytes. This is a massive upgrade
from when I first [music] got interested
in self-hosting. So, if you saw the
video that I made nearly a year ago, at
first I was just running on the same
computer that I'm using, and then I
>> [music]
>> switched to using like a MacBook Air,
and then eventually I realized
I actually wanted to get a dedicated
computer to do this self-hosting thing,
and so that's when I got this one. If
you're interested in trying out some of
these apps, I would highly recommend you
just to install it on
any other device or even just the
computer that you're using and to test
it out first and see if you actually
need something better or something with
more storage. If you did want to try
this out, there are a few things that
you probably should know [music] first.
So, the first is a lot of the hardware
right now is at a very elevated price
because of
basically like the AI bubble.
And so, it's probably not a good time to
invest in [music] RAM or anything like
that. The second thing is if you get a
server that has a hard drive, you'll
basically hear scratching discs all the
time.
And the third thing is because this
computer is always plugged in and it's
always running, the discs are only rated
for 8 to 10 years before they have a
high chance of failing. So, it's likely
that in 10 years, I'll probably have to
switch out the drive and buy a new one.
But, [music] by then the technology will
maybe better. But, overall I'd say that
the benefits of doing this greatly
outweigh the things that I just
mentioned. Like, this has encouraged me
in general to just have more ownership
over my data. For the tools I'm using
and that I'm investing time into, I want
them to be able to last for a lifetime.
I don't want them to keep changing and
pivoting and having to figure out the
next best thing to use. Anyway, that's
it for this video. Let me know what you
guys think and if you have any questions
about self-hosting. And if you have any
recommended open-source apps that you
use, if you do something [music] like
this, definitely let me know in the
comments below. I would love to try it.
And I'll see you in the next video.
Let's get it.
>> [music]